# J221: Final Project Pitch
## Sabhanaz Rashid Diya

I worked as a jouranlist and entrepreneur for a number of years in Bangladesh and India before coming to UC Berkeley to pursue a Master in Public Policy. During these experiences, what struck me most was how little leverage the common public have on governments and monopolistic corporations. I am very interested to therefore explore the interactions of people with "authoritative" bodies or service providers. This can be exhibited through voting, crowd-sourced reports or government-sponsored "customer" surveys.

The goal of my project is to develop a visaulization of how people's interactions and experiences have shaped the growth or quality of service delivery for governments.  I will be looking at crowdsourced reports on public service delivery in India and measuring whether it has impacted the quality of service delivery. As far as I understand, the data has been collected over the past 5 years through an organization called Janaagraha in India (runs ipaidabribe.com), that specializes in collecting "bribe" narratives and maps them spatially. Whether this data is publicly available is still unresolved, however I intend to contact them and pursue the dataset. 

The story I want to create looks at the "bribe" reports collected through Janaagraha and will put them on a map to see which parts of India reported the highest collection of bribes. I will then use a second dataset from World Bank Global Indicators that looks closely into the economic growth (GDP per capita, inflation, etc.) of India over the past 5 years. The status quo around corruption is that is hinders economic growth, therefore we will expect to see regions with higher bribe rry experiencing lower growth. The second dataset can be plotted on a horizontal bar graph or tree map, but will determinedv based on the granualirity of the dataset. 

In the event where Janaagraha's CSV files are not available, I have access to the cyclone measurements and preparedness for some parts of the world through a faculty at the Goldman School of Public Policy. The dataset when plotted against polling stations in the same region can analyyze whether disaster preparedness affected voting behavior. The hypothesis suggests that governments are not very well prepared for natural disasters because it's more "beneficial" to respond to disasters inthe eyes of the voters. What this comparison can prove is whether disaster preparedness has an impact on voting behavior in the sense if regions experiencing frequent cyclones were warned more systematically, whether people in that particular region or representative of a particular polling station still went to vote and what was the participation rate. The results can challenge the status quo and encourage governments to be more proactive in disaster preparedness, that can have massive policy implications. 

The latter project is still under development and therefore, specifics about geographical locations, data sources and plotting stategies are kept confidential. I am happy to discuss them in person during out meeting. 